h1. Frequently Asked Questions

h2. User Registration

h3. Q: Can I register my nickname?

Yes, can register your nickname with [[NickServ]].

h3. Q: Can I use a client side SSL certificate?

Yes, please take a look [[here|NickServ#SSL_Client_Certificates]].

h3. Q: Can I register a channel?

Yes, you can register a channel with [[ChanServ]].

h3. Q: Can I get a host cloak?

Yes, once you register and identify with [[NickServ]] a hostcloak of @<nick>.users.sector5d.org@ will be applied. Make sure you identify before you join any channels to make sure the hostcloak is applied before you join a channel.

h2. Using the network

h3. Q: Is there a official Sector 5D channel?

Yes, it is at @#sector5d@.

h3. Q: Can I access Sector 5D via webchat?

Yes, there is an official [[Webchat|http://wbe04.mibbit.com/?settings=278e6d4d9fcb17bc10ac48082e6ff21d&server=irc.sector5d.org%3A%2B6697&channel=%23sector5d&hashtag=%23sector5d]] which you can find at [[here|http://wbe04.mibbit.com/?settings=278e6d4d9fcb17bc10ac48082e6ff21d&server=irc.sector5d.org%3A%2B6697&channel=%23sector5d&hashtag=%23sector5d]].

h3. Q: How do I configure irssi to connect to Sector 5D?

Take a look [[here|irssi]].

h3. Q: Is there a list of usermodes or channel modes?

See [[User Modes]] and [[Channel Modes]].

h3. Q: What makes this IRC network different from other IRC network?

Two main differences are that we require SSL on every connection, and we give host cloaks once a user has registered and identified with [[NickServ]].

h2. Server Questions

h3. Q: How do I link my own server to the network?

If you are interested in linking your own server to the Sector 5D network then please see [[here|Linking]].
