This is a guide to configuring irssi to connect to Sector 5D.

h2. Basic connection

The following commands will create a basic SSL connection to Sector 5D. For a better setup please see the full configuration guide below.

```
/network add Sector5D
/server add -ssl -auto -network Sector5D irc.sector5d.org 6697
/channel add -auto #sector5d Sector5D
/connect -network Sector5D irc.sector5d.org
/save
```

h2. Full configuration

This configuration will use a client side SSL certificate and validate the server's ssl certificate.

The following commands will generate a client side SSL certificate.

```
mkdir -p ~/.irssi/certs
cd ~/.irssi/certs
openssl req -nodes -newkey rsa:2048 -keyout nick.key -x509 -days 365 -out nick.crt
cat nick.crt nick.key > nick.pem
chmod 0400 nick.key nick.pem
```

Now you have generated a certificate you can now load irssi and use the following commands to add the network and connect.

```
/network add Sector5D
/server add -ssl_cert ~/.irssi/certs/nick.pem -auto -network Sector5D irc.sector5d.org 6697
/channel add -auto #sector5d Sector5D
/connect -network Sector5D irc.sector5d.org
/save
```

Now you should have connected to Sector 5D in irssi, the next step is [[NickServ]]. If you do not already have a NickServ account then do the following to register your nickname:

```
/msg NickServ register <password> <email-address>
```

Alternatively if you already have a [[NickServ]] account you will need to identify, you can do this with the following command.

```
/msg NickServ identify <password>
```

*Remember to change your nick name to the nickname you registered with NickServ. You can do this with the @/nick <new-nick>@ command.*

Once you have registered or identified with NickServ you can run the following command to add your SSL certificate to NickServ so you will not need a password to connect to NickServ again.

```
/msg NickServ cert add
```
